Travel	Advertisement “When Harry Met Sally” is a New York City holiday classic dressed up as a romance. Here’s where to recapture the magic. By NEIL GENZLINGER Places that live on in the author’s memories have been wholly transformed as tourists discover her hometown. By LUISITA LOPEZ TORREGROSA Amman is often a pit stop on the way to Petra, but there are enough old and new flavors to keep visitors satisfied for a weekend. By PATRICK SCOTT New features, from flight price alerts to a device that can translate languages and tell you when your plane departs, ease some of the guesswork. By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM From Airbnb hosting to beachfront safety, we provided readers with a range of travel tips throughout 2016. We compiled some of the most well-received pieces. By THE NEW YORK TIMES With creativity and help from residents, visitors to an expensive part of the world need not get stuck “in a ratty.” By LUCAS PETERSON The Vesterbro neighborhood in the Danish capital, once a seedy area, has become home to local entrepreneurs opening quirky boutiques. By SHIVANI VORA The expat experience offered simple pleasures — buying bread at the market, boisterous bowling — and, after terrorist attacks, heartbreak as well. By SAM BORDEN It’s a big world out there, so we’ve narrowed it down for you. From the temples of Malta to the crystalline waters of the Yucatán, explore our top destinations to visit this year. Club Med, Holland America Line and a resort in the Bahamas are among those offering lower rates and spending credits. By ELAINE GLUSAC Glimmers of hope emerged on some consumer irritants of the year, including airline and rental-car fees, and college tuition transparency. By RON LIEBER Like Tapawingo before it, Alliance offers sophisticated concoctions that showcase locally sourced ingredients. By BETSY RUBINER The Hoxton Amsterdam hits the sweet spot by balancing a hip vibe and relaxation. By INGRID K. WILLIAMS Every piece of silver flatware or crystal wine glass — even the scent wafting through the lobby — has been attended to by an expert. Here are some of them. By ABBY ELLIN A new $12 billion Beijing airport is the country’s latest attempt to unclog its crowded airways — and aid its slowing economy to boot. By EMILY FENG Dozens of people die in avalanches each year, mostly while skiing and snowmobiling. Researchers set out to understand what separates risky from safe behavior. By STEPH YIN A longtime flight attendant says that politeness helps improve a trip, as does bringing your own food for the ride. By SHIVANI VORA According to Dr. Biruté Mary Galdikas, the president of Orangutan Foundation International, tourism benefits the primates and local people. By KELLY DINARDO A wave of baby boomer retirements and the growth of aviation in Asia have led to a void that is rippling across the state with gale force. By KIRK JOHNSON In an encore presentation, the “Shameless” actress reads the story of a college student who receives a life-changing kiss from a stranger on a plane. By THE NEW YORK TIMES Aerial shoots are among the innovative services being offered to travelers; other packages include edited images taken by professionals. By NORA WALSH The Flying Scotsman, a beloved British steam engine, was recently renovated and came out of retirement. By DREW GARDNER, MAUREEN TOWEY and SAMANTHA QUICK A commercial firm has recreated the bunker where Hitler committed suicide in 1945. By ALISON SMALE Getting in shape in January is a tradition. But some properties are offering long-term wellness programs, including yoga and guided runs and hikes. By SHIVANI VORA Most phones and tablets are well within the airline industry’s safety rules for lithium-ion batteries, but some gadgets, like drones, may push the limits. By CHRISTINE NEGRONI Airlines are wary of drones and other devices with powerful batteries. And they won’t be as delighted as you are with that virtual reality headset. By CHRISTINE NEGRONI Listen in as the Wells Cathedral Choir performs ‘Once in Royal David’s City’ in preparation for Christmas Masses. The choir first sang at Wells Cathedral in 909. By DREW GARDNER, SAMANTHA QUICK and MAUREEN TOWEY Excursions include stops at museums like the Met and the Whitney as well as galleries and studios in the Bronx and Brooklyn. By SHIVANI VORA Morty Tock’s pastrami recipe lives on at his Hong Kong namesake, which opened in April. By RACHEL LEVIN Get a curated digest of lifestyle news delivered to your inbox twice a week. Club Med, Holland America Line and a resort in the Bahamas are among those offering lower rates and spending credits. By ELAINE GLUSAC Glimmers of hope emerged on some consumer irritants of the year, including airline and rental-car fees, and college tuition transparency. By RON LIEBER Like Tapawingo before it, Alliance offers sophisticated concoctions that showcase locally sourced ingredients. By BETSY RUBINER The Hoxton Amsterdam hits the sweet spot by balancing a hip vibe and relaxation. By INGRID K. WILLIAMS Every piece of silver flatware or crystal wine glass — even the scent wafting through the lobby — has been attended to by an expert. Here are some of them. By ABBY ELLIN A new $12 billion Beijing airport is the country’s latest attempt to unclog its crowded airways — and aid its slowing economy to boot. By EMILY FENG Dozens of people die in avalanches each year, mostly while skiing and snowmobiling. Researchers set out to understand what separates risky from safe behavior. By STEPH YIN A longtime flight attendant says that politeness helps improve a trip, as does bringing your own food for the ride. By SHIVANI VORA According to Dr. Biruté Mary Galdikas, the president of Orangutan Foundation International, tourism benefits the primates and local people. By KELLY DINARDO A wave of baby boomer retirements and the growth of aviation in Asia have led to a void that is rippling across the state with gale force. By KIRK JOHNSON In an encore presentation, the “Shameless” actress reads the story of a college student who receives a life-changing kiss from a stranger on a plane. By THE NEW YORK TIMES Aerial shoots are among the innovative services being offered to travelers; other packages include edited images taken by professionals. By NORA WALSH The Flying Scotsman, a beloved British steam engine, was recently renovated and came out of retirement. By DREW GARDNER, MAUREEN TOWEY and SAMANTHA QUICK A commercial firm has recreated the bunker where Hitler committed suicide in 1945. By ALISON SMALE Getting in shape in January is a tradition. But some properties are offering long-term wellness programs, including yoga and guided runs and hikes. By SHIVANI VORA Most phones and tablets are well within the airline industry’s safety rules for lithium-ion batteries, but some gadgets, like drones, may push the limits. By CHRISTINE NEGRONI Airlines are wary of drones and other devices with powerful batteries. And they won’t be as delighted as you are with that virtual reality headset. By CHRISTINE NEGRONI Listen in as the Wells Cathedral Choir performs ‘Once in Royal David’s City’ in preparation for Christmas Masses. The choir first sang at Wells Cathedral in 909. By DREW GARDNER, SAMANTHA QUICK and MAUREEN TOWEY Excursions include stops at museums like the Met and the Whitney as well as galleries and studios in the Bronx and Brooklyn. By SHIVANI VORA Morty Tock’s pastrami recipe lives on at his Hong Kong namesake, which opened in April. By RACHEL LEVIN Go to Home Page » 20170101	Real Estate	Advertisement Home improvements should include designs that help owners age in place. By KAYA LATERMAN There are many things that can be done to make a home suitable for aging in place. By KAYA LATERMAN Having a curb cut doesn’t always guarantee you a parking spot, and it may be more trouble than you bargained for. By HOPE REEVES Digital calendars are fine, but for ease and speed sometimes the old-fashioned kind works better. By TIM McKEOUGH A flurry of pricey condominium sales, many at Manhattan’s newest ultraluxury developments, provided a strong finale to an already robust 2016. By VIVIAN MARINO What is the prognosis for renters now that the long-awaited line is scheduled to open? By MICHAEL KOLOMATSKY This week’s properties are five-bedroom homes in Cherry Hill, N.J., and Centre Island, N.Y. Reported by JILL P. CAPUZZO and MARCELLE SUSSMAN FISCHLER This week’s properties are on the Upper East Side, in the Gramercy area and in Dumbo, Brooklyn. By MICHELLE HIGGINS The owner of Tavern 62 by David Burke, on why he has 1,200 cookbooks and more art than he can display. By JOANNE KAUFMAN For a big one-bedroom at a low rent, they are willing to endure street noise. By JOYCE COHEN For some first-time buyers, renting might actually be cheaper, both in the short- and long-term. By RONDA KAYSEN Proximity to the park, easy access to two subway lines and an abundance of new restaurants are some of the attractions of this Upper West Side neighborhood. By AILEEN JACOBSON A 1920s house in Atlanta, a contemporary in Topanga, Ca., and a lakeside condominium in Seattle. By MIKE POWELL Aruba has struggled to recover from the global real estate crisis of 2008, though the market has showed some improvement in recent years. By ALISON GREGOR In a dog-friendly co-op, can the board evict a breed with a bad reputation? By RONDA KAYSEN A co-op board is responsible for protecting its employees from shareholders behaving badly — even if they’re lawyers (or just litigious). By RONDA KAYSEN A co-op has problems with a grocery store that attracts pigeons and rats. By RONDA KAYSEN Neighbors battle over noise. By RONDA KAYSEN How do you permanently remove vagrants from a rental building lobby? By RONDA KAYSEN This week’s properties are five-bedroom homes in Cherry Hill, N.J., and Centre Island, N.Y. This week’s properties are on the Upper East Side, in the Gramercy area and in Dumbo, Brooklyn. The chef and restaurateur, who recently opened a new place on the Upper East Side, lives in a high-rise penthouse in Fort Lee, N.J. Even as the city celebrates a line many doubted would ever open, longtime residents and shopkeepers worry that they’re about to be priced out of their neighborhood. By EMMA G. FITZSIMMONS The dance troupe spent $1.3 million on a 175-acre property to house its nascent Petronio Residency Initiative. By JOSHUA BARONE A 1920s house in Atlanta, a contemporary in Topanga, Calif., and a lakeside condominium in Seattle. The house, built in the 1960s on the island’s northwest coast, is on the market for $1.46 million. The Consumer Confidence Index rose to 113.7 this month, its highest mark since August 2001, as Americans expressed optimism for better economic times. By REUTERS Recent commercial real estate transactions in New York City. By ROSALIE R. RADOMSKY With its low-slung buildings and vacant parcels, the River North Art District is seen as one of the last development frontiers in the city. By JOE GOSE With homeowners having renovated traditional targets like kitchens and bathrooms, they are turning their attention to that most neglected of spaces. By LISA W. FODERARO Recent residential sales in New York City and the region. Compiled by C.J. HUGHES Close to nature and to San Francisco, Mill Valley has a competitive real estate market with low inventory and accordingly high prices. By JULIE LASKY Close to nature and to San Francisco, Mill Valley has a competitive real estate market with low inventory and accordingly high prices. This week’s properties are in Weekhawken, N.J., and Irvington, N.Y. Reported by JILL P. CAPUZZO and ANNE MANCUSO This week’s properties are in Weekhawken, N.J., and Irvington, N.Y. This week’s properties are in Kips Bay, Financial District, and Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. By MICHELLE HIGGINS This week’s properties are in Kips Bay, Financial District, and Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. A symbol of the season exerts a nostalgic pull. Photographs by GEORGE ETHEREDGE A symbol of the season exerts a nostalgic pull. Photographs by GEORGE ETHEREDGE for THE NEW YORK TIMES This week’s properties are five-bedroom homes in Cherry Hill, N.J., and Centre Island, N.Y. This week’s properties are on the Upper East Side, in the Gramercy area and in Dumbo, Brooklyn. The chef and restaurateur, who recently opened a new place on the Upper East Side, lives in a high-rise penthouse in Fort Lee, N.J. Even as the city celebrates a line many doubted would ever open, longtime residents and shopkeepers worry that they’re about to be priced out of their neighborhood. By EMMA G. FITZSIMMONS The dance troupe spent $1.3 million on a 175-acre property to house its nascent Petronio Residency Initiative. By JOSHUA BARONE A 1920s house in Atlanta, a contemporary in Topanga, Calif., and a lakeside condominium in Seattle. The house, built in the 1960s on the island’s northwest coast, is on the market for $1.46 million. The Consumer Confidence Index rose to 113.7 this month, its highest mark since August 2001, as Americans expressed optimism for better economic times. By REUTERS Recent commercial real estate transactions in New York City. By ROSALIE R. RADOMSKY With its low-slung buildings and vacant parcels, the River North Art District is seen as one of the last development frontiers in the city. By JOE GOSE With homeowners having renovated traditional targets like kitchens and bathrooms, they are turning their attention to that most neglected of spaces. By LISA W. FODERARO Recent residential sales in New York City and the region. Compiled by C.J. HUGHES Close to nature and to San Francisco, Mill Valley has a competitive real estate market with low inventory and accordingly high prices. By JULIE LASKY Close to nature and to San Francisco, Mill Valley has a competitive real estate market with low inventory and accordingly high prices. This week’s properties are in Weekhawken, N.J., and Irvington, N.Y. Reported by JILL P. CAPUZZO and ANNE MANCUSO This week’s properties are in Weekhawken, N.J., and Irvington, N.Y. This week’s properties are in Kips Bay, Financial District, and Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. By MICHELLE HIGGINS This week’s properties are in Kips Bay, Financial District, and Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. A symbol of the season exerts a nostalgic pull. Photographs by GEORGE ETHEREDGE A symbol of the season exerts a nostalgic pull. Photographs by GEORGE ETHEREDGE for THE NEW YORK TIMES Go to Home Page » 20170101	Obama’s Last Days: Aiding Trump Transition, but Erecting Policy Roadblocks	Advertisement By MICHAEL D. SHEARDEC. 31, 2016 WASHINGTON — Only two days after the election, President Obama sat by President-elect Donald J. Trump’s side in the Oval Office and declared that the No. 1 priority in his last days in the White House would be ensuring a smooth transition of power. What Mr. Obama did not say was that he also intended to set up as many policy and ideological roadblocks as possible before Mr. Trump takes his oath of office on Jan. 20. With less than three weeks before the Obama White House is history, making way for a new administration with radically different priorities, the president is using every power at his disposal to cement his legacy and establish his priorities as the law of the land. He has banned oil drilling off the Atlantic coast, established new environmental monuments, protected funding for Planned Parenthood clinics, ordered the transfer of detainees from Guantánamo Bay, criticized Israeli settlements and punished Russia for interfering in the recent elections through cyberattacks. Advertisement The next president may be able to roll back some, or even most, of those actions, a point that Mr. Obama’s top aides concede. But every step the current president takes requires Mr. Trump to overcome one more legislative or procedural hurdle as he seeks to change direction in Washington. Advertisement Mr. Obama is continuing to fill the ranks of the government with his own appointees; since Election Day, he has named 103 people to senior Civil Service jobs, boards, key commissions and oversight panels, including the National Council on Disability, the Amtrak board of directors, the Holocaust Memorial Council and the boards of visitors at military academies. He is also pushing ahead with his goal of freeing nonviolent drug offenders from federal prisons. In the last few weeks, he has commuted the sentences of 232 federal inmates and pardoned 78 others. And on Wednesday, he will meet with Democratic lawmakers to discuss ways to protect the Affordable Care Act from efforts by Mr. Trump and Republicans to dismantle it. To many conservatives, Mr. Obama is acting out of spite as much as conviction. “He’s doing all this stuff as his legacy,” said Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, comparing Mr. Obama to a petulant god in a Wagner opera. “If he goes through three more weeks of this stuff, who is the country going to think is the extremist? Trump or Obama?” White House aides note that many of the president’s last-minute actions were put in motion months or even years before the outcome of the election was clear. And none break from the ideological approach Mr. Obama took during his eight years in office. But they represent a determination by the 44th president to squeeze in every last Obama-era achievement before Mr. Trump — who has vowed to dismantle those achievements — takes over. That has cheered some of Mr. Obama’s liberal allies, who wish he could do even more. “The Republicans are freaking out because all of a sudden Obama is doing a lot of governing,” said Matt Bennett, the senior vice president for public affairs at the Third Way, a liberal think tank. “They don’t like it. I get that. But he’s in his right to do it, and he should do it. Is he trying to box Trump in? You bet — and he should.” Mr. Obama’s actions have not gone unnoticed by Mr. Trump and the people working frantically to assemble the new administration. A day after Mr. Obama allowed passage of a United Nations Security Council resolution criticizing Israeli settlements, Mr. Trump angrily wrote on Twitter that the move would “make it much harder to negotiate peace.” Mr. Trump added, optimistically: “Too bad, but we will get it done anyway!” Two days later, in a sign of his growing frustration with Mr. Obama, Mr. Trump posted again on Twitter, saying he was doing his best to “disregard the many inflammatory President O statements and roadblocks.” Advertisement He continued, “Thought it was going to be a smooth transition — NOT!” That Twitter message apparently prompted a phone call from Mr. Obama the next day, when the president and president-elect tried to re-emphasize their cooperation. Mr. Obama’s spokesman issued a statement calling the discussion positive, saying both men had pledged to “work together to effectuate a smooth transition of power on January 20th.” That evening, from his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida, Mr. Trump insisted that the transition was going “very, very smoothly” and said his talk with Mr. Obama had been a “very, very nice” conversation. “Our staffs have been getting along very well, and I’m getting along very well with him other than a couple of statements that I responded to,” Mr. Trump said. White House officials are quick to insist that Mr. Obama has ordered all levels of government to cooperate fully with Mr. Trump on the mechanics of the transition. That directive stands, they said, regardless of the ideological gulf that divides the two men. Nonetheless, it is not uncommon for a departing president to take actions in the waning days of his administration that limit the options for a successor from the other party. In mid-December 2008, President George W. Bush signed a multiyear status-of-forces agreement with Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki of Iraq that called for all American troops to be out of Iraq by the end of 2011. Concerns about security and instability in Iraq in 2011 led the Obama administration into talks with Iraqi leaders to leave some American forces beyond the deadline, but the negotiations broke down and Mr. Obama ended up following the timeline he had inherited from Mr. Bush. “Talk about tying your successor’s hands,” Mr. Bennett said. “Bush was fully within his rights and powers. These are big, very important matters of national security and foreign policy. We have one president at a time. He’s got to act like the president.” Something similar transpired with the actions Mr. Obama took this past week at the United Nations. By abstaining on the settlement resolution, the United States paved the way for its approval. Conservatives viewed the president’s actions with disdain. Advertisement “Obama and John Kerry are like tenants who trash a place as they are being evicted,” Erick Erickson, the author of a prominent conservative website, said on Twitter. Mr. Obama’s most permanent action may be his order banning oil drilling off the Atlantic coast, a decision rooted in a 1953 law that experts say will be legally difficult for Mr. Trump to reverse. Environmental groups and other liberal advocacy organizations are hoping for more such moves by Mr. Obama, up until his last moments in office. “The Constitution lays out that the president is president to Jan. 20 at noon,” said Neera Tanden, the president of the Center for American Progress, a liberal think tank in Washington. Ms. Tanden said Mr. Obama’s actions were bolstered by approval ratings significantly higher than Mr. Trump’s, a historical oddity. Most modern incoming presidents bask in the glow of postelection polling, while those leaving the White House have worn out their welcome. Mr. Obama is “appropriately reading that as full steam ahead,” Ms. Tanden said. “The president rightly sees that the American people are supporting the actions he is taking.” White House officials said Mr. Obama would continue to take actions he deemed necessary until Mr. Trump was sworn in. “The president is dedicated to using each of his remaining days in office to build on and solidify” his policies, said Brandi Hoffine, a White House spokeswoman. But officials also say Mr. Obama is unlikely to satisfy the demands of liberal activists who want him to go even further. In a news conference in mid-December, Mr. Obama noted that tension in his late-term responsibilities in response to a question about the violence in Syria. “I will help President Trump — President-elect Trump — with any advice, counsel, information that we can provide so that he, once he’s sworn in, can make a decision,” Mr. Obama told reporters. “Between now and then, these are decisions that I have to make based on the consultations I have with our military and the people who have been working this every single day.” Shortly after the news conference, Mr. Obama headed to Hawaii for his last vacation there as president. A version of this article appears in print on January 1, 2017, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Obama Works to Cement Legacy With Eye on Trump. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »