Food	Saturday, December 31, 2016 Smoked trout and beet salad, with trout roe. Humble ingredients, like bright golden beets, can be just as celebratory as caviar and truffles. Here are 10 large Champagne producers worth seeking out and definitions of frequently used terms. Rich, tasty and somewhat virtuous, morning glory muffins are a fine January treat. A dish of farro, roasted winter squash and feta can be a meatless main course or hearty side dish. It’s a good time to be a writer covering bourbon, rye and other American whiskeys. It’s time again for the annual lists of what we will be eating. Here is how the seers make their predictions. Your New Year’s meal? Oysters, a bottle of Champagne. But if you want to cook a little, we’ve got you covered. American makers are struggling, but help may be on the way. Alton Brown’s new book, “EveryDayCook: This Time It’s Personal,” is his eighth, but the first in which he offers at least a small peek into the ways he cooks and eats at home. These are the articles and columns that Food section readers found most compelling in 2016. These were the most saved recipes in 2016 from NYT Cooking. From a slab of roast beef to frozen yogurt, Pete Wells picks the most memorable things he ate this year. Our Hungry City critic picks the favorite restaurants she visited this year in New York’s rich global bazaar. These wines, both modest and profound, recall moments in 2016 not to be forgotten. In a restaurant world gone a little crazy, this TriBeCa landmark is an oasis of familiar comforts. Mr. Ladner the latest high-end chef to seek his fortune with a simpler, more replicable quick-serve restaurant. The owner of Tavern 62 by David Burke, on why he has 1,200 cookbooks and more art than he can display. A holiday meal ends on a sour note, a mother is struggling to get to work on time, and a bride-to-be is sick of hearing “At Last” at weddings. The panzerotto, a Southern Italian turnover, is the star of a new shop on Macdougal Street. Jacobs & Brichford’s Briana with truffles has an alluring edge, while the Connersville, Ind., farm’s Ameribella has a satin creaminess. K & M chocolates are a partnership between the chef Thomas Keller and the olive oil producer Armando Manni. A prime-rib restaurant from the team behind Au Cheval in Chicago opens in the West Village, and more restaurant news. A pasta sauce and a garlic dip from Delicious & Sons are ready for entertaining. Place mats from the Museum of Modern Art are ready for drips from messy eaters. While Freddie Bryant, 78, recuperates from surgery, a new generation carries on the annual sale of home-cured meats. The celebrity chef’s New York debut features steaks and a slightly outdated notion of glamour. The restaurant in Elmhurst, Queens, serves food that tastes of gestures timeworn but never taken for granted. “The Great American Baking Show,” a spinoff of “The Great British Bake Off,” compresses the show into a holiday themed box. Trouble with blades in the food processor has led to one of the largest appliance recalls on record and has cooks checking their machines. The Department of Agriculture urges stronger protections for animals in experiments at a Nebraska unit investigated by The New York Times. A British tradition, potted shrimp preserved in spiced butter is wonderfully rich. Steak tartare and pommes Anna are an elegant twist on cheeseburger and fries. This one ingredient makes the beloved eggy, rich bread even more delectable. Rediscovering flan, that simple alchemy of eggs, milk and sugar, and a Christmas tradition throughout Spain and Latin America. A giant roast may be standard holiday fare, but a flavorful pot of short ribs can be far more celebratory. The chef Daniel Rose of Le Coucou makes pommes Darphin, a large potato pancake, for Hanukkah. Six dessert books push the genre into new territory. Your take on the protean American party snack tells a lot about where you came from and how much processed cheese you can withstand. A buffet frees up the holiday host for more important things, like enjoying the season. Blackberry Cooler, Orchid Thief, and Mumbai Mule An alcohol-free cocktail can be as special and satisfying as its boozy counterpart. This standard wine from the Piedmont region of Italy demonstrates the value of an everyday bottle. Wine is good. Hot chocolate is good. But together? It turned out to be pretty great. Researchers studied bubbles from the grapevine to the glass, learning more about their properties and how that effervescence affects flavor. Arlaux, a family-run winery known for its use of the pinot meunier grape, is now selling its Champagnes in the United States. The popularity of small grower-producers has increased, but it is a mistake to dismiss the big houses, which can also make great Champagnes. An influential cocktail lounge on the Lower East Side will be joined by establishments as far as Tennessee. Supplies of aged rye have dwindled and are highly coveted, but the category of young mixable ryes has exploded. This fortified, sweet wine with a history stretching back centuries is experiencing a modest revival. Follow us to find all the food that’s fit to cook, snap and eat. A library of more than 50 videos demonstrating simple skills that home cooks should master. Find your favorite recipes on our Pinterest boards. Interactive map of health violations at restaurants in New York Like Tapawingo before it, Alliance offers sophisticated concoctions that showcase locally sourced ingredients. Los Angeles’s strip malls have long been strongholds of splendid traditional ethnic restaurants. Now they are home to ultracreative ones, helmed by daring new chefs. Go to Cooking » Get regular updates from The New York Times Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice. And download Cooking for iPhone and iPad in the App Store.

