By GEORGE YANCY 3:55 PM ET My inclusion on a new ‘watchlist’ is intended to shame me into silence.  Comments By MAC MAHARAJ The Cuban leader will always be remembered as a great friend and ally to our national liberation movement. Paola Infante lives with her 4-year-old daughter, Geraliz, who has autism, and her 8-month-old son, Joshua, who needs heart surgery, in a small Manhattan apartment with the kitchen in the living room. In its 105th year, The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund has provided direct assistance to those struggling in New York and beyond. Donate now » The two-state solution is on life support, but there is one thing Obama can do to keep the hope of a peace deal alive. An ugly, angry mood dominates Britain, where both the government and the opposition are in disarray. By JULIE BESONEN Projects from architects like Frank Gehry and Zaha Hadid, along with the High Line, have helped transform this former industrial area. Go to Home Page » 20170101	Help	  As of June 4, 2015, NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier  — you can still use our site, but certain features may not work as expected. We recommend upgrading your browser. For more information, visit whatbrowser.org, a site maintained by Google. 20170101	Today’s Paper	Saturday, December 31, 2016 The daily newspaper, reimagined for the Web.Available to subscribers. In a head-spinning turn, Mr. Putin decided against actions recommended just hours earlier by Sergey V. Lavrov in response to American sanctions and expulsions. Moscow’s announcement that there will be no tit for tat over the expulsion of Russian diplomats gives the president-elect a chance at a new chapter. The comments from the British leader, who has been trying to make inroads with the incoming Trump administration, represented an extraordinary public rebuke. China’s decision gives wildlife protection advocates hope that the threatened extinction of certain elephant populations in Africa can be averted. Trust ebbs in a precinct with many murders but too few detectives. The governor’s action means that Ms. Clark, who was convicted of murder in a 1981 ambush that left three dead, will be eligible for parole early next year. Witnessing firsthand this volatile zone, first with the Iraqi Army and then with units of the Iraqi Federal Police. 20170101	Times Video