With Trump, Russia Goes From Thursday’s Foe of U.S. to Friday’s Friend	Advertisement By NEIL MacFARQUHARDEC. 31, 2016 MOSCOW — The diatribe against the Obama administration on prime-time television by a Russian Foreign Ministry official was hardly unusual in the long history of rocky relations between the United States and Russia. The administration “demonstrated the belief that the strongest has the right to create evil,” Maria Zakharova, the Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, said on the Christmas Day broadcast. From Washington’s perspective, it is the Kremlin that generally personifies evil, a point President Obama made on Thursday in punishing Russia for cyberattacks by directing new sanctions against Moscow and expelling 35 Russian diplomats. “The United States and friends and allies around the world must work together to oppose Russia’s efforts to undermine established international norms of behavior,” Mr. Obama said in a statement. The two statements appeared to be business as usual — each side representing enemy No. 1 for the other. By Friday that mood had been abruptly cast aside, however. President Vladimir V. Putin announced that Russia would do nothing in response to the new American measures, awaiting the next administration, prompting President-elect Donald J. Trump to call him “very smart” in a Twitter post. Advertisement With the sitting president calling Russia a national security threat and the incoming one praising Mr. Putin, many American voters, long accustomed to being suspicious about Russia, are understandably confused and uneasy. Russia was an enemy on Friday morning, and a friend by the afternoon. Advertisement “We are in a whiplash moment right now, and I think it is unprecedented in several respects,” said Cliff Kupchan, the chairman of the Eurasia Group, a political risk assessment firm in Washington, and a former State Department official from the Clinton administration. “The most important one is that the baton is about to be passed from an administration with a very hard line on Russia to one that is very much more sympathetic.” No clear agreements or even offers are on the table yet, however, bringing uncertainty. “Russia’s relations with the U.S. are currently up in the air — both sides have no clear strategy about how to move them forward,” said Aleksandr Morozov, an independent Russian political analyst. Until the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991, and even for years afterward, matters were more black and white. A young American diplomat stationed in Moscow named George F. Kennan established the parameters of the relationship for decades with a famous 1947 policy paper. The Soviet Union was bent on expansion, he wrote, so the main element of any United States policy had to be containment. Thus began a long roller coaster ride for the two countries, full of periodic upswings as friends when détente was in vogue, inevitably followed by precipitous plummets as foes that left the world shuddering about the prospects of a nuclear Armageddon. Tensions eased periodically, but it never seemed to last. President Ronald Reagan, an implacable anti-Communist, surprised the world by reaching out to the man who turned out to be the last leader of the Soviet Union, Mikhail Gorbachev, to begin negotiations for far-reaching arms control agreements between the two sides. After the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991, the Russian Federation that emerged entered into an extended period of decline and, inevitably, friendship with the United States as a kind of junior partner. That “junior” aspect rankled, however, particular after Mr. Obama went from seeking to reset relations to dismissing Russia as a “regional power.” The latest crisis began in 2014, with a revolution in Ukraine that Mr. Putin labeled an American plot — he, as many Soviet leaders have, sees the hidden hand of Washington everywhere. Mr. Putin annexed Crimea and armed rebels in eastern Ukraine, prompting Western economic sanctions, which Mr. Trump has disparaged. Advertisement The last confrontation under the Obama administration between Moscow and Washington came to a head this fall after American intelligence agencies concluded that hacking by their Russian counterparts had breached national security, cracking open the computers of the Democratic National Committee to reveal emails that embarrassed Hillary Clinton’s campaign. Mr. Trump initially encouraged the Kremlin to hack even more, breaking with all precedents, not least the Republican tradition of painting Russia as the evil empire, as Mr. Reagan called it. Mr. Obama waited to react until last week, and it looked as if he might leave his successor a diplomatic tempest, until Mr. Putin, long the master of the unexpected stroke, defused it. Mr. Trump suddenly gained room to maneuver. “Trump’s spirit is already here, and already changing Russia’s policies,” said Igor M. Bunin, the director of the Center for Political Technologies, a Moscow research institute. “This will be a great plus for future relations.” There are still potential pitfalls, however, not least that Congress does not share an affectionate view of Mr. Putin. Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, plans to open hearings on Thursday on Russia’s efforts to manipulate the presidential election. Much of the Republican establishment in Congress endorsed the new sanctions imposed against Russia, putting them at odds with Mr. Trump. Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, was with Mr. McCain and Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, last week to tour the Baltic States, which fear being the next target of the Russian military. “The Russian cyberattack, and the misinformation and propaganda — they have been living with this for decades,” Ms. Klobuchar said in an interview. American voters have heard Mr. Trump praise Russia, and some in the far right have hailed Mr. Putin as a hero for espousing conservative values. Yet old instincts die hard. Advertisement “I worry about what our relationship with other countries is going to be with a Trump presidency, if we buddy-buddy up to Russia and a leader who is not so democratic in nature,” said Alexis Matter, 35, walking through a Denver shopping mall. In Sandy Springs, Ga., Chase Williams, 26, the manager of a pet supply store, said that Russia had fallen off the radar in recent years. His fears now were less of the old Cold War over a nuclear weapons attack than a sense that Mr. Putin could outfox the American administration. “When I say Russia scares me, it’s not because I’m scared of them coming over here and doing something,” Mr. Williams said. “I’m scared when I see a chess player playing checkers — and we are checkers.” Mr. Putin has made no secret of the fact that he would like to re-establish the consensus reached with the United States at the 1945 Yalta conference that carved the globe into spheres of influence. Russia no longer has the might needed to assert its right to be a superpower, analysts say, but if nothing else, cyberattacks have underscored that you do not need nuclear weapons or a strong economy to assert global influence. Some Russian analysts wonder what Mr. Putin can offer Mr. Trump. A former K.G.B. agent, he tends to view the world order as a series of special operations, coming from a different arena than Mr. Trump’s world of business deals. “I don’t think that Putin has a plan,” said Gleb Pavlovsky, a political analyst and former media adviser to Mr. Putin. “I think that he is stunned by the number of bonus points that he has gotten.” In Syria, President Bashar al-Assad is on the verge of reasserting control over much of the country, thanks largely to Mr. Putin’s intervention. Ukraine presents some problems, but has essentially boiled down into the kind of frozen conflict that Russia uses to destabilize independent-minded neighbors. And all of the attention on the cyberattacks made Mr. Putin look strong. In those successes, analysts see fodder for Mr. Putin to offer Mr. Trump a manner of foreign policy victory that would give the American leader something tangible to crow about at home in an arena where he lacks experience. Advertisement Russia, Iran and Turkey cut Washington out of the Syria negotiations, so Mr. Putin could bring the United States back in and forge a deal on fighting the Islamic State. Mr. Trump has stated that he wants to join forces with Russia in crushing the jihadists. Or the Kremlin could offer some sort of cyberspace deal. “I think that Putin is in a strong position,” said Nicolai Petrov, a Russian political scientist. “He looks strong in relation to the United States and he has freedom to maneuver, and he can do what he wants to demonstrate that the United States should recognize that Russia is not a regional power but a great power that should be taken into account.” So, for the moment, Mr. Putin appears a potential friend to Mr. Trump. Few expect it to last, however. First of all, Mr. Trump is unpredictable. And fundamentally, the two countries are destined to be at odds, because they view the world through different lenses. Russian policy in recent years has been trying to sow doubt and undermine public faith in Western governments. The Kremlin has relied on a variety of levers — disinformation campaigns, buying influence, cyberattacks — which many analysts expect to show up in crucial elections in the coming year in France and Germany. “They are trying to create more of a level playing field not by raising Russia up, but through a declining West,” Mr. Kupchan said. “I don’t think Putin is out to make America great again.” Reporting was contributed by Ivan Nechepurenko and Andrew E. Kramer from Moscow, Alan Blinder from Sandy Springs, Ga., Julie Turkewitz from Denver, and Noah Weiland from Washington. A version of this article appears in print on January 1, 2017, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Thursday’s Foe Is Friday’s Friend As Russia Relations Whipsaw. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page » 20170101	With Trump, Russia Goes From Thursday’s Foe of U.S. to Friday’s Friend	Advertisement By NEIL MacFARQUHARDEC. 31, 2016 MOSCOW — The diatribe against the Obama administration on prime-time television by a Russian Foreign Ministry official was hardly unusual in the long history of rocky relations between the United States and Russia. The administration “demonstrated the belief that the strongest has the right to create evil,” Maria Zakharova, the Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, said on the Christmas Day broadcast. From Washington’s perspective, it is the Kremlin that generally personifies evil, a point President Obama made on Thursday in punishing Russia for cyberattacks by directing new sanctions against Moscow and expelling 35 Russian diplomats. “The United States and friends and allies around the world must work together to oppose Russia’s efforts to undermine established international norms of behavior,” Mr. Obama said in a statement. The two statements appeared to be business as usual — each side representing enemy No. 1 for the other. By Friday that mood had been abruptly cast aside, however. President Vladimir V. Putin announced that Russia would do nothing in response to the new American measures, awaiting the next administration, prompting President-elect Donald J. Trump to call him “very smart” in a Twitter post. Advertisement With the sitting president calling Russia a national security threat and the incoming one praising Mr. Putin, many American voters, long accustomed to being suspicious about Russia, are understandably confused and uneasy. Russia was an enemy on Friday morning, and a friend by the afternoon. Advertisement “We are in a whiplash moment right now, and I think it is unprecedented in several respects,” said Cliff Kupchan, the chairman of the Eurasia Group, a political risk assessment firm in Washington, and a former State Department official from the Clinton administration. “The most important one is that the baton is about to be passed from an administration with a very hard line on Russia to one that is very much more sympathetic.” No clear agreements or even offers are on the table yet, however, bringing uncertainty. “Russia’s relations with the U.S. are currently up in the air — both sides have no clear strategy about how to move them forward,” said Aleksandr Morozov, an independent Russian political analyst. Until the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991, and even for years afterward, matters were more black and white. A young American diplomat stationed in Moscow named George F. Kennan established the parameters of the relationship for decades with a famous 1947 policy paper. The Soviet Union was bent on expansion, he wrote, so the main element of any United States policy had to be containment. Thus began a long roller coaster ride for the two countries, full of periodic upswings as friends when détente was in vogue, inevitably followed by precipitous plummets as foes that left the world shuddering about the prospects of a nuclear Armageddon. Tensions eased periodically, but it never seemed to last. President Ronald Reagan, an implacable anti-Communist, surprised the world by reaching out to the man who turned out to be the last leader of the Soviet Union, Mikhail Gorbachev, to begin negotiations for far-reaching arms control agreements between the two sides. After the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991, the Russian Federation that emerged entered into an extended period of decline and, inevitably, friendship with the United States as a kind of junior partner. That “junior” aspect rankled, however, particular after Mr. Obama went from seeking to reset relations to dismissing Russia as a “regional power.” The latest crisis began in 2014, with a revolution in Ukraine that Mr. Putin labeled an American plot — he, as many Soviet leaders have, sees the hidden hand of Washington everywhere. Mr. Putin annexed Crimea and armed rebels in eastern Ukraine, prompting Western economic sanctions, which Mr. Trump has disparaged. Advertisement The last confrontation under the Obama administration between Moscow and Washington came to a head this fall after American intelligence agencies concluded that hacking by their Russian counterparts had breached national security, cracking open the computers of the Democratic National Committee to reveal emails that embarrassed Hillary Clinton’s campaign. Mr. Trump initially encouraged the Kremlin to hack even more, breaking with all precedents, not least the Republican tradition of painting Russia as the evil empire, as Mr. Reagan called it. Mr. Obama waited to react until last week, and it looked as if he might leave his successor a diplomatic tempest, until Mr. Putin, long the master of the unexpected stroke, defused it. Mr. Trump suddenly gained room to maneuver. “Trump’s spirit is already here, and already changing Russia’s policies,” said Igor M. Bunin, the director of the Center for Political Technologies, a Moscow research institute. “This will be a great plus for future relations.” There are still potential pitfalls, however, not least that Congress does not share an affectionate view of Mr. Putin. Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, plans to open hearings on Thursday on Russia’s efforts to manipulate the presidential election. Much of the Republican establishment in Congress endorsed the new sanctions imposed against Russia, putting them at odds with Mr. Trump. Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, was with Mr. McCain and Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, last week to tour the Baltic States, which fear being the next target of the Russian military. “The Russian cyberattack, and the misinformation and propaganda — they have been living with this for decades,” Ms. Klobuchar said in an interview. American voters have heard Mr. Trump praise Russia, and some in the far right have hailed Mr. Putin as a hero for espousing conservative values. Yet old instincts die hard. Advertisement “I worry about what our relationship with other countries is going to be with a Trump presidency, if we buddy-buddy up to Russia and a leader who is not so democratic in nature,” said Alexis Matter, 35, walking through a Denver shopping mall. In Sandy Springs, Ga., Chase Williams, 26, the manager of a pet supply store, said that Russia had fallen off the radar in recent years. His fears now were less of the old Cold War over a nuclear weapons attack than a sense that Mr. Putin could outfox the American administration. “When I say Russia scares me, it’s not because I’m scared of them coming over here and doing something,” Mr. Williams said. “I’m scared when I see a chess player playing checkers — and we are checkers.” Mr. Putin has made no secret of the fact that he would like to re-establish the consensus reached with the United States at the 1945 Yalta conference that carved the globe into spheres of influence. Russia no longer has the might needed to assert its right to be a superpower, analysts say, but if nothing else, cyberattacks have underscored that you do not need nuclear weapons or a strong economy to assert global influence. Some Russian analysts wonder what Mr. Putin can offer Mr. Trump. A former K.G.B. agent, he tends to view the world order as a series of special operations, coming from a different arena than Mr. Trump’s world of business deals. “I don’t think that Putin has a plan,” said Gleb Pavlovsky, a political analyst and former media adviser to Mr. Putin. “I think that he is stunned by the number of bonus points that he has gotten.” In Syria, President Bashar al-Assad is on the verge of reasserting control over much of the country, thanks largely to Mr. Putin’s intervention. Ukraine presents some problems, but has essentially boiled down into the kind of frozen conflict that Russia uses to destabilize independent-minded neighbors. And all of the attention on the cyberattacks made Mr. Putin look strong. In those successes, analysts see fodder for Mr. Putin to offer Mr. Trump a manner of foreign policy victory that would give the American leader something tangible to crow about at home in an arena where he lacks experience. Advertisement Russia, Iran and Turkey cut Washington out of the Syria negotiations, so Mr. Putin could bring the United States back in and forge a deal on fighting the Islamic State. Mr. Trump has stated that he wants to join forces with Russia in crushing the jihadists. Or the Kremlin could offer some sort of cyberspace deal. “I think that Putin is in a strong position,” said Nicolai Petrov, a Russian political scientist. “He looks strong in relation to the United States and he has freedom to maneuver, and he can do what he wants to demonstrate that the United States should recognize that Russia is not a regional power but a great power that should be taken into account.” So, for the moment, Mr. Putin appears a potential friend to Mr. Trump. Few expect it to last, however. First of all, Mr. Trump is unpredictable. And fundamentally, the two countries are destined to be at odds, because they view the world through different lenses. Russian policy in recent years has been trying to sow doubt and undermine public faith in Western governments. The Kremlin has relied on a variety of levers — disinformation campaigns, buying influence, cyberattacks — which many analysts expect to show up in crucial elections in the coming year in France and Germany. “They are trying to create more of a level playing field not by raising Russia up, but through a declining West,” Mr. Kupchan said. “I don’t think Putin is out to make America great again.” Reporting was contributed by Ivan Nechepurenko and Andrew E. Kramer from Moscow, Alan Blinder from Sandy Springs, Ga., Julie Turkewitz from Denver, and Noah Weiland from Washington. A version of this article appears in print on January 1, 2017, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Thursday’s Foe Is Friday’s Friend As Russia Relations Whipsaw. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page » 20170101	In Trump’s New Year Note, Love and a Jab at ‘Enemies’	Advertisement By ELI ROSENBERGDEC. 31, 2016 Americans woke up on the last day of 2016 to a message from President-elect Donald J. Trump wishing them a happy new year. But the holiday missive, posted on Mr. Trump’s official Twitter account around 8 a.m., came with a pointed jab. “Happy New Year to all,” Mr. Trump wrote, “including to my many enemies and those who have fought me and lost so badly they just don’t know what to do. Love!” (Some social media users homed in on Mr. Trump’s use of the word enemies, rather than opponents or another word for those who oppose him.) Even a holiday known for its good cheer, it seems, could not dull Mr. Trump’s penchant for doling out taunts and insults via Twitter. The social media site remains one of Mr. Trump preferred channels for communicating with the public, and he has consistently used it to make statements that have upended news cycles. Advertisement One of Mr. Trump’s messages in December, about the United States’ nuclear arsenal, incited a cascade of speculation, as his words about a topic of considerable gravity were parsed and analyzed. Questions have been raised about how the news media should cover Mr. Trump’s use of Twitter, with some people noting that, whether by design or not, the messages divert attention away from other events. Happy New Year to all, including to my many enemies and those who have fought me and lost so badly they just don't know what to do. Love! On Friday, the news was dominated by reports and analysis related to President Obama’s decision to strike back at Russia for its election-related hacking by, among other things, expelling 35 Russian diplomats and their families, as well as by the rift that has come to the fore in recent days between the Obama administration and the Israeli government. And when President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia said he did not plan to retaliate against the United States in response to Mr. Obama’s diplomatic moves, Mr. Trump used Twitter to compliment Mr. Putin. “Great move on delay (by V. Putin),” the president-elect wrote. “I always knew he was very smart!” We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 20170101	How Russians Pay to Play in Other Countries	Advertisement By NEIL MacFARQUHARDEC. 30, 2016 PRAGUE — For a brief moment, it seemed that the powerful adviser’s head might roll at the Castle. After he lost his long legal battle over a hefty state fine, the Czech president warned him to pay up or lose his post. Then a guardian angel materialized from Moscow. Lukoil, the largest private Russian oil company in an industry dependent on Kremlin approval, stepped in to pay the nearly $1.4 million fine owed to a Czech court. The aide, Martin Nejedly, stayed on as economic adviser to the Czech president, Milos Zeman, and vice chairman of his party. Perhaps more important, he retained his office right next to the president’s in the Castle, the official palace that looms over the capital, Prague. But the payment last spring raised questions about Russian influence-buying in the Castle, where Mr. Zeman has staked out a position as one of the Kremlin’s most ardent sympathizers among European leaders. Advertisement “Unfortunately in the Czech Republic, some advisers to the president or the prime minister are willing to cooperate with the Russians,” said Karel Randak, who retired as head of the Czech foreign intelligence service in 2007. “I am not saying that they are Russian agents — but unfortunately for some people, the money is more important than the security of the Czech Republic.” Advertisement On Thursday, the Obama administration imposed sanctions against Russia to retaliate against what American intelligence agencies say was the use of cyberattacks to meddle in the presidential election. But while the hacking focused attention on one particularly stealthy, intrusive way of influencing other states, it is just one lever that the Kremlin pulls. The others include disinformation campaigns across a range of Russian-financed media outlets, support for violent fringe groups and even occasional plots against high-profile government critics. And in some cases, experts say, the Kremlin and its allies resort to an old-fashioned but highly effective technique: trying to buy seats at the table of mainstream politics, never sure where or when their support might pay off. One overarching question about Russian influence in Europe is whether President Vladimir V. Putin has just been lucky that some politicians echo his thinking, or whether the Kremlin has manipulated that trend. For many analysts, somewhere between pure luck and outright manipulation lies opportunism, and they call that a Kremlin specialty. “The Russians systematically fill any open space, and they try to expand it,” said Martin Stropnicky, the Czech defense minister. “They have years of practice, and they are not in a hurry.” Moscow did not construct public disenchantment with either the European Union or liberal immigration policies, for example, but it exploits such issues, analysts said. The Kremlin seeks to weaken what it considers alliances arrayed against it, like the European Union and NATO, especially as it sees them spreading through its natural sphere of influence in the former Soviet bloc. “Every country that was successful in moving away from Communism toward an open, prosperous society based on law is a real threat to them,” said Ivan Gabal, deputy chairman of the Security Committee in the Czech Parliament. Advertisement Russia’s funding of political movements or individual politicians is nothing new, analysts say. After the collapse of the Soviet Union, all manner of payments from Moscow came to light, including subsidizing of the antinuclear movement. “The behavior is so close to Soviet behavior it is ridiculous,” said Martin Kragh, head of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Swedish Institute of International Affairs in Stockholm. “It is like they picked up an old handbook and just dusted it off.” Gleb Pavlovsky, a political consultant who served as a Kremlin spin doctor for 15 years before 2011, said the main difference now was that while the Soviet Union had sought out ideological allies, the modern Kremlin looked for anyone who could serve its purposes. “I am certain that they pay a large number of different people,” he said. “In the Kremlin they see this as the normal ways of the market. I think that they always have some money, a line item in the budget, to help in creating advantageous positions.” As prime minister from 1998 to 2002, Mr. Zeman was the key official in negotiating the Czech Republic’s entrance into the European Union, lauding it as his country’s return to its Western roots. Then he lost a presidential bid in 2003, withdrawing to a remote village and passing summer days floating in a rubber dinghy on a local lake. Most Czechs forgot about him. The Russians did not. He was invited to an annual forum used as a platform to attack Western institutions by Vladimir I. Yakunin, head of Russian Railways and a former Soviet intelligence officer at the United Nations. At least one Russian ambassador dropped in to visit as well, according to several Czech journalists. Mr. Zeman made a comeback in 2013, winning the presidency in a victory partly engineered by Mr. Nejedly, the key financial official for the campaign. Mr. Nejedly remains a shadowy figure — serving the president as a private adviser, not on the government payroll. He spent most of the 1990s working in Russia, telling one Czech reporter in a rare interview that he promoted Opel cars. He eventually returned to the Czech Republic and in 2007 founded Lukoil Aviation Czech, a Lukoil subsidiary, becoming its general manager. The company won no-bid contracts to supply aviation fuel at several Czech airports, including Prague’s. Advertisement But the business failed, running up almost $7.5 million in debts, according to commercial records kept by the Prague Municipal Court, including a $1.4 million fine Mr. Nejedly owed to the Czech state over a fuel deal gone sour. The records were first unearthed in November by the MF DNES newspaper. Lukoil liquidated its subsidiary. Court records indicate that Mr. Nejedly, who owned 40 percent of Lukoil Aviation Czech, paid nothing. Fostering ties with energy middlemen who owe their fortunes to Russia and exert considerable political influence is a classic Russian method seen in Germany, Ukraine and other countries. Such links might not be forged by the Kremlin directly, but by individuals or companies seeking to please Mr. Putin. Mr. Nejedly displays his Russian sympathies plainly enough — a recent picture published in the Czech media showed him holding his cellphone with a picture of Mr. Putin on the back. Relations between Russia and the European Union deteriorated sharply in 2014 after Russian used its military to annex Crimea and to destabilize Ukraine. In the aftermath, Mr. Zeman proved notably friendly toward Russia. He repeatedly criticized Western economic sanctions imposed on Russia, and denied that the Kremlin had deployed troops in Ukraine. The latter prompted Carl Bildt, the Swedish foreign minister at the time, to remark in September of 2014: “I don’t know if the Czech Republic has an intelligence service. It does? Then he should ask them.” Mr. Zeman was among just two or three European Union leaders who attended the May 2015 Victory Day parade in Moscow commemorating the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II. Mr. Putin greeted him warmly. Advertisement “It is a pleasure to know that there are politicians in Europe who are capable of directly expressing their viewpoint and of asserting and conducting an independent policy,” the Russian president said, according to the Kremlin’s website. Mr. Nejedly, though lacking a Czech government security clearance, was one of just two aides in the meeting, a move Mr. Zeman defended because of Mr. Nejedy’s role as an economic adviser. Since that time, Mr. Zeman has continued backing pro-Kremlin policies. He endorsed the Russian intervention in Syria, and last summer called for a “Czechxit” referendum like the British vote to withdraw from the European Union. There is a debate in the Czech Republic over the extent to which the Kremlin influences the president. Some accuse him of accepting Russian money for his campaigns, while others say his statements reflect the sentiments of a public increasingly fed up with the European Union. Then there are those who argue that he has long espoused a role for the Czech Republic as an East-West bridge. Some observers also note that as president, Mr. Zeman has a loud megaphone but little real power. The prime minister and the cabinet, who set policy, have remained staunchly pro-Western. The president’s spokesman, Jiri Ovcacek, said in a text message that he would not respond to questions about alleged Russian influence. Mr. Zeman tends to dismiss his critics, including the press, as “Prague whiners” or “Prague cafe society.” Mr. Nejedly, reached by telephone, railed briefly about the court fine levied against Lukoil Aviation Czech, before asking to see any questions in writing. He did not answer them. The Russian Embassy also asked for questions in writing and did not respond. Lukoil’s Moscow headquarters said it had liquidated the company and paid off its debts in accordance with Czech law, noting that it had appealed the fine and lost. Mr. Zeman previously denied that Lukoil was among his sponsors, and Vagit Alekperov, head of the company, told a Czech newspaper years ago that Lukoil was privately owned and entirely independent of Russian politics, according to translations from The Fleet Sheet, an English-language news service. Advertisement It is difficult to prove that the Kremlin buys influence. Even in the rare cases when the payments are obvious, cause and effect are not black and white. Various Czech politicians and analysts argued that President Zeman merely reflected the popular mood at home. Zdenek Ondracek, a member of Parliament for the Communist Party, said many Czechs were nostalgic for the days before 1989, when the Soviet model offered greater stability, income equality and relative ease. “The socialist state offered its citizens many guarantees, and no one would find themselves facing hardships on their own,” Mr. Ondracek said, wearing a black T-shirt printed with words “I was born in the CSSR,” the old initials for the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic. In some cases, old ties may be more potent than any website pumping out false stories, said Mr. Randak, the former intelligence chief. He noted that many such personal links existed from the more than four decades that the Soviet Union controlled Czechoslovakia. Russian businesspeople, journalists and others have longstanding social or commercial ties here, and some undoubtedly work for Russian intelligence, he said. The Russian Embassy also tried to recruit members of the 40,000-strong exile community as agents of influence, setting up the Coordinating Council of the Russian Compatriots in the Czech Republic, according to two Russian leaders of expatriate groups, Alexej N. Kelin, the coordinating council’s former head, and Igor Zolotarev. At first the exiles thought the embassy outreach was to learn how the Czech Republic transitioned away from Communism. “This illusion disappeared at the time when Putin came to power and the whole interest of Russia in its citizens abroad was treating them as a channel to exercise Russian foreign policy abroad,” said Mr. Zolotarev, the founder of an expatriate group called Russian Tradition. In addition, Prague is teeming with Russian spies. The 2015 annual report by the domestic intelligence service stated that the extraordinary number of Russian diplomats accredited to the embassy here meant many were working as intelligence officers. The number of Russian Embassy diplomats is generally pegged at 120 to 140, compared with about 40 Foreign Service officers for the United States. Advertisement Puppet organizations and other Russian operations “can be used to destabilize or manipulate Czech society or the political environment at any time, if Russia wishes to do so,” the report said. In January, the Interior Ministry will start a Center Against Terrorism and Hybrid Threats meant to expose disinformation and the like. Analysts suspect the Kremlin is the main Russian entity that tries to buy influence, but hardly the only one. Oligarchs and companies are guilty of the same behavior. “A lot of this is not at the direct behest of Putin,” said Alina Polyakova of the Atlantic Council, editor of a recent study on Russian influence in Europe. “There are individuals who try to seek favoritism, who want to bring something good to the czar.” Hana de Goeij contributed reporting. A version of this article appears in print on December 31, 2016, on Page A9 of the New York edition with the headline: How Russians Pay to Play in Other Countries. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »