Politics	Saturday, December 31, 2016 President-elect Donald J. Trump and President Obama meeting in the Oval Office after the election. Mr. Obama that day pledged a smooth transition. With three weeks left in office, the president is using all his powers to cement his legacy and make undoing it that much harder for his successor. The lawsuit, challenging the Obama administration’s spending of billions on subsidies, could have consequences that entangle Republicans and the incoming Trump team. Republicans plan to waste no time repealing the Affordable Care Act, a signature part of President Obama’s legacy. President Obama’s decision to expel 35 Russian diplomats was provocative, but gamesmanship on both sides involves familiar calculations, former intelligence officers say. East Coast retreats for diplomats were seen by the Obama administration as beachside spy nests, and all Russians were ordered out. The Obama administration said it was tossing out 35 intelligence operatives and imposing sanctions on Russian intelligence services and officers. Mr. Trump reiterated his earlier call for the country to “move on to bigger and better things” but said he would get the briefing “nevertheless.” The political career of Mr. Reinecke, a California congressman and a lieutenant governor under Ronald Reagan, was derailed by a 1974 perjury conviction. The president-elect addressed a Twitter post “to all,” including “those who have fought me and lost so badly they just don’t know what to do.” With Donald J. Trump making admiring remarks about Vladimir V. Putin, many Americans, accustomed to be suspicious of Russia, are confused and uneasy. Mrs. Dukakis, a former first lady of Massachusetts, credits the treatment with saving her life, and she and her husband work to promote electroconvulsive therapy. President-elect Donald J. Trump has made deals involving two resorts in Indonesia and forged relationships with powerful political figures there. Four seasoned Times reporters offer a guide to the coming year. A list of possibilities and appointees for top posts in the new administration. The protection of Donald J. Trump during visits to his home in Manhattan presents challenges unlike those of any previous president. A look at two years’ worth of messages suggests he’s using Twitter much the way he was before becoming a candidate: to react to whatever’s in front of him. Results of the U.S. electoral vote. The Obama administration announced sanctions against Russia and released a report that states that the Russian government deployed computer hackers to attack the Democratic Party’s computers. He can accomplish some of his promises entirely on his own, but others require Congress or pose other significant obstacles. President-elect Donald J. Trump’s cabinet and top staff are shaping up to be a mix of wealthy Washington outsiders, Republican insiders and former military officers who have been critical of the Obama administration. Donald J. Trump’s global business empire will create an unprecedented number of conflicts of interest for a United States president, experts say. A Trump administration could weaken or do away with many of the Obama-era policies focused on greenhouse gas emissions. Sorting through the confusing sets of numbers in Trump’s deportation plan. Obama has laid all the groundwork Trump needs for a crackdown on reporters. ‘It’s amazing to me the lightning speed at which these issues have receded. The story is the total omission of women.’