October 19, 2016, 5:43 PM Read More » Paul Krugman December 30, 2016, 5:18 PM Nicholas Kristof December 23, 2016, 3:56 PM Ross Douthat December 19, 2016, 10:42 AM Dot Earth December 5, 2016, 7:07 AM 20170101	Business Day Technology	Saturday, December 31, 2016 The United States Embassy in Moscow on Friday. Russia’s foreign minister recommended expelling 35 Americans in retaliation for a similar move by President Obama on Thursday, but President Vladimir V. Putin said he was rejecting the advice. In a head-spinning turn, Mr. Putin decided against actions recommended just hours earlier by Sergey V. Lavrov in response to American sanctions and expulsions. The government scouted a wide range of civilian programmers in recent years, even criminals, while expanding its cyberwarfare abilities. The Obama administration announced sanctions against Russia and released a report that states that the Russian government deployed computer hackers to attack the Democratic Party’s computers. Netflix is offering 10 short videos with popular cartoon and real-life characters who, on demand, ring in the new year — regardless of what time it truly is. Even in Silicon Valley, where talent wars are legion, courting female executives to join tech company boards is particularly cutthroat. A hidden bounty of benefits for Foxconn’s plant in Zhengzhou, the world’s biggest iPhone factory, is central to the production of Apple’s most profitable product. About half of all iPhones are made in a facility in China that can churn out 500,000 devices a day with the help of over 300,000 employees. Here's how a phone made there can end up in your hands. After much deliberation, President Obama is punishing Russia for its cyberattacks against the United States. But his successor may seek to mend fences. Saving a copy of your iTunes library can be as easy as dragging a folder to an external drive, but there are other ways to make sure you’re backed up. An Indian couple use huge profits from a deal with Disney to finance a nonprofit that aims to help a million villagers build better lives. The tennis star announced the news with a poem and an illustration on the website’s popular engagement subreddit. Money into start-ups tapered off in 2016, as did the number of deals struck. But venture capitalists are poised to invest big in start-ups and I.P.O.s in the new year. Brian Norgard, an executive at Tinder, with his collection of historical photos and a gift from his father: the jaws of a great white shark. Start-up vehicle companies, often using quirky designs, are turning to crowdfunding to finance their challenges to the established automakers. The social network automatically linked to a bogus article about an “explosion” in Thailand and appeared to conflate it with a 2015 bombing. A Times reporter recommends five ways to simplify your tech life by creating better habits with devices, improving password management and more. Airlines are wary of drones and other devices with powerful batteries. And they won’t be as delighted as you are with that virtual reality headset. Most phones and tablets are well within the airline industry’s safety rules for lithium-ion batteries, but some gadgets, like drones, may push the limits. Insight and analysis on Silicon Valley and the technology industry. Follow these tips to improve the maintenance of your passwords, devices and tech infrastructure. Also, shop smarter and reduce waste in 2017. From exploding smartphones and hoverboards to fake news on social media, many tech hardware, software and web products suffered embarrassing setbacks. But it was not all bleak. A news curator based on what friends are reading, an easy-to-access universe of NPR audio, and an upgraded beer-tracking app are among our top picks. A security researcher says hackers are offering records of more than 1 billion users, but as with the company’s stock, the price is dropping. Windows 10 apps can keep you current with a lot of dynamically updated information, but your device’s battery may be taking a hit. If you don’t want to risk losing your photos and other memories stored online, consider making a copy of your account’s contents for safekeeping. The wide array of available video-streaming devices can be overwhelming, but a bit of research will help you figure out what features you really need. The popular service currently doesn’t let you edit your thoughts after you post them, but some apps can help you make corrections more quickly. Microsoft’s current operating system can switch back and forth between a touch-friendly interface or the traditional desktop system. Gift-buying season has arrived, and there are plenty of apps to help make you a smarter shopper. Get caught up on the latest news, insight and analysis from our reporters and editors delivered to your inbox six days a week. For news and analysis, plus interesting links curated by our journalists. Staff Twitter List » Follow 20170101	Science	Advertisement Researchers studied bubbles from the grapevine to the glass, learning more about their properties and how that effervescence affects flavor. By JOANNA KLEIN Here's a selection of Science desk reporters' most memorable stories of the year, with a focus on archaeology, biology and space. By THE NEW YORK TIMES Here’s a selection of Times reporters’ most memorable stories of the year, with a focus on climate change and related environmental issues. By THE NEW YORK TIMES Catch limits for fishermen are often based on where fish have been most abundant in the past. But they have failed to keep up with geographical changes. By ERICA GOODE Scientists rely on remote sensing instruments, including satellites, to know when Bogoslof volcano is pouring gas and ash into the sky. By HENRY FOUNTAIN At 31, he was among the world’s oldest pandas, and his descendants are said to account for nearly 25 percent of all captive pandas worldwide. By ERIN McCANN The Pan-Starrs telescope on the island of Maui released an astronomical survey that includes two petabytes of data, roughly equivalent to a billion selfies. By DENNIS OVERBYE A drop in their numbers has prompted an international team to call for changing the animal’s status from vulnerable to endangered. By JAMES GORMAN Dozens of people die in avalanches each year, mostly while skiing and snowmobiling. Researchers set out to understand what separates risky from safe behavior. By STEPH YIN The larvae of Doederlein’s Cardinalfish appear to use the Earth’s magnetic forces to guide their return to the reef where they were born. By NICHOLAS BAKALAR A physicist and her students used a balloon and a bed of nails to make it easier to visualize how water droplets respond to a spiky surface. By JOANNA KLEIN Gene variants that might give Inuit in Greenland more heat-generating fat matches up with DNA found in Denisovans, an extinct group of ancient humans. By STEPH YIN The duck-size creature lived in what is now the Canadian Arctic during a time period when a strong greenhouse effect was occurring. By NICHOLAS ST. FLEUR Think of your liver as the unindulgent relative at your holiday party who doesn’t like the change in schedule and would rather be in bed. By STEPH YIN With corporate funding of research, “There’s no scientist who comes out of this unscathed.” By DANNY HAKIM Despite the claims of some commercial products, experts say no elixir exists to cure a hangover. But there are steps you can take to minimize its effects. By CHRISTOPHER MELE Aaron Rodriques’s affection for cockroaches, worms and other creepers has widened in adulthood to thoughts of what they can teach us about our fears and even our xenophobia. By ANDY NEWMAN A painter with a fine arts degree has an art-related day job that is heavy on the chemistry. Interview by PATRICIA R. OLSEN Dr. Goldwasser helped build one of the world’s most powerful particle accelerators and make Fermilab a leader in scientific advancements and collaborations. By NICHOLAS ST. FLEUR The actress and author brought the subject of bipolar illness into the popular culture with humor and hard-boiled detail. By BENEDICT CAREY Babies of women who took fish oil in the last three months of pregnancy had a 31 percent lower risk of developing asthma by age 3, a study in Denmark found. By DENISE GRADY Dr. Rubin, who was awarded the National Medal of Science in 1993, ushered in the cosmic realization that most of the universe is invisible. By DENNIS OVERBYE A committee is under fire for how its members were selected. Several have financial ties to biotech businesses, potentially giving short shrift to health and environmental worries. Even as the pounds fell away and their health improved, two patients contended with the feeling that life hadn’t changed as much as they’d hoped. By GINA KOLATA Jessica Shapiro tells of her weight loss and her changing relationship with food in the months after gastric bypass surgery — her last resort to combat severe obesity. By GARETH SMIT, NICK HARBAUGH and JESSICA SHAPIRO The surgery almost always works to help very heavy people lose a lot of weight and also can mysteriously make some chronic conditions vanish. By GINA KOLATA An elevated role on climate change is a sign of how California, one of the world’s 10 largest economies, plans to resist the incoming administration’s policies. By ADAM NAGOURNEY and HENRY FOUNTAIN Fatal drug overdoses have nearly tripled over the past few years, largely because of opioid abuse, the C.D.C. has found. Mr. Sellers was a leading figure in NASA’s scientific research programs, flying to the International Space Station on the space shuttle Atlantis in 2002 and 2010, and on Discovery in 2006. By RICHARD GOLDSTEIN Rates of insomnia and vitamin B12 deficiency generally increase in older people, but supplements may not be the answer to ease sleep problems. By C. CLAIBORNE RAY Most major cancer centers post the trials in which they participate on their websites. But other sites show more options. By DENISE GRADY As immunotherapy research takes off, the patients getting the treatment have been overwhelmingly white. Researchers know this and say they are trying to correct it. By DENISE GRADY For a sleep-disordered woman who works all night and sleeps all day, dating presents challenges. By AMANDA GEFTER Dr. Drell served on a series of advisory groups that helped advance the technology of nuclear detection and shape the policy of nuclear deterrence. By WILLIAM GRIMES Every week, we'll bring you stories that capture the wonders of the human body, nature and the cosmos. With corporate funding of research, “There’s no scientist who comes out of this unscathed.” By DANNY HAKIM Despite the claims of some commercial products, experts say no elixir exists to cure a hangover. But there are steps you can take to minimize its effects. By CHRISTOPHER MELE Aaron Rodriques’s affection for cockroaches, worms and other creepers has widened in adulthood to thoughts of what they can teach us about our fears and even our xenophobia. By ANDY NEWMAN A painter with a fine arts degree has an art-related day job that is heavy on the chemistry. Interview by PATRICIA R. OLSEN Dr. Goldwasser helped build one of the world’s most powerful particle accelerators and make Fermilab a leader in scientific advancements and collaborations. By NICHOLAS ST. FLEUR The actress and author brought the subject of bipolar illness into the popular culture with humor and hard-boiled detail. By BENEDICT CAREY Babies of women who took fish oil in the last three months of pregnancy had a 31 percent lower risk of developing asthma by age 3, a study in Denmark found. By DENISE GRADY Dr. Rubin, who was awarded the National Medal of Science in 1993, ushered in the cosmic realization that most of the universe is invisible. By DENNIS OVERBYE A committee is under fire for how its members were selected. Several have financial ties to biotech businesses, potentially giving short shrift to health and environmental worries. Even as the pounds fell away and their health improved, two patients contended with the feeling that life hadn’t changed as much as they’d hoped. By GINA KOLATA Jessica Shapiro tells of her weight loss and her changing relationship with food in the months after gastric bypass surgery — her last resort to combat severe obesity. By GARETH SMIT, NICK HARBAUGH and JESSICA SHAPIRO The surgery almost always works to help very heavy people lose a lot of weight and also can mysteriously make some chronic conditions vanish. By GINA KOLATA An elevated role on climate change is a sign of how California, one of the world’s 10 largest economies, plans to resist the incoming administration’s policies. By ADAM NAGOURNEY and HENRY FOUNTAIN Fatal drug overdoses have nearly tripled over the past few years, largely because of opioid abuse, the C.D.C. has found. Mr. Sellers was a leading figure in NASA’s scientific research programs, flying to the International Space Station on the space shuttle Atlantis in 2002 and 2010, and on Discovery in 2006. By RICHARD GOLDSTEIN Rates of insomnia and vitamin B12 deficiency generally increase in older people, but supplements may not be the answer to ease sleep problems. By C. CLAIBORNE RAY Most major cancer centers post the trials in which they participate on their websites. But other sites show more options. By DENISE GRADY As immunotherapy research takes off, the patients getting the treatment have been overwhelmingly white. Researchers know this and say they are trying to correct it. By DENISE GRADY For a sleep-disordered woman who works all night and sleeps all day, dating presents challenges. By AMANDA GEFTER Dr. Drell served on a series of advisory groups that helped advance the technology of nuclear detection and shape the policy of nuclear deterrence. By WILLIAM GRIMES Go to Home Page »