Business Day	Saturday, December 31, 2016 An effort by the United States to seize assets from officials who stole their countries’ wealth is now focused on returning the loot without enriching the looters. The Kleptocracy Asset Recovery Initiative has seized a Malibu mansion and a $500,000 Ferrari owned by a member of Equatorial Guinea’s ruling family, the Obiangs. But a glove that Michael Jackson wore on tour, similar to this one, remains in the family’s possession. Spinraza, a “life-changing” drug for spinal muscular atrophy, will cost as much as $750,000 for the first year of treatment and $375,000 annually after that. With corporate funding of research, “There’s no scientist who comes out of this unscathed.” With its rise as a trading powerhouse, Deutsche got mixed up in some of finance’s riskier, and most penalized, gambits. Prosecutors accused Moon Hyung-pyo of ordering a pension fund to back the deal, which helped ensure that control of Samsung passed from its chairman to his son. With three weeks left in office, the president is using all his powers to cement his legacy and make undoing it that much harder for his successor. Even in Silicon Valley, where talent wars are legion, courting female executives to join tech company boards is particularly cutthroat. An Indian couple use huge profits from a deal with Disney to finance a nonprofit that aims to help a million villagers build better lives. The airbag maker is nearing a settlement with prosecutors over airbags that have been linked to deaths and injuries, according to two people briefed on the matter. A new $12 billion Beijing airport is the country’s latest attempt to unclog its crowded airways — and aid its slowing economy to boot. In a head-spinning turn, Mr. Putin decided against actions recommended just hours earlier by Sergey V. Lavrov in response to American sanctions and expulsions. The government scouted a wide range of civilian programmers in recent years, even criminals, while expanding its cyberwarfare abilities. Start-up vehicle companies, often using quirky designs, are turning to crowdfunding to finance their challenges to the established automakers. The updates are modest, but that is O.K. for a vehicle that Acura calls the best-selling premium three-row crossover in history. Even as the city celebrates a line many doubted would ever open, longtime residents and shopkeepers worry that they’re about to be priced out of their neighborhood. One participant, who leads a nonprofit advocacy group, has raised money to study the retirement fund’s problems. Glimmers of hope emerged on some consumer irritants of the year, including airline and rental-car fees, and college tuition transparency. A Postal Service ad has revived interest in a 1953 Christmas novelty hit by the former child star Gayla Peevey. (She did get the hippopotamus.) A hidden bounty of benefits for Foxconn’s plant in Zhengzhou, the world’s biggest iPhone factory, is central to the production of Apple’s most profitable product. A painter with a fine arts degree has an art-related day job that is heavy on the chemistry. Money into start-ups tapered off in 2016, as did the number of deals struck. But venture capitalists are poised to invest big in start-ups and I.P.O.s in the new year. A study shows that women are making inroads among the wealthy, but that their ranks at the very top of the earnings ladder are still remarkably thin. Forecasts about how the market will perform are seldom useful, but there are some bedrock principles that can help investors plan. The Haggler looks back on 2016 and finds a long list of companies behaving badly. Follow these tips to improve the maintenance of your passwords, devices and tech infrastructure. Also, shop smarter and reduce waste in 2017. Economics teaches caution about where and when markets can work without government intervention. Education is one such case. The chief executive of a hair-products company learned from growing up in a tough neighborhood that she needed to control her own destiny. A blind man is sensitive to his colleagues’ misconceptions. He then realizes he has his own. Saving a copy of your iTunes library can be as easy as dragging a folder to an external drive, but there are other ways to make sure you’re backed up. All the company needed were content-hungry millennials and an algorithm. Mr. Mattson, a production executive who had once been a printer, helped transform the newspaper with innovative labor agreements and new technologies. The workplace plans offered to teachers and social workers cost too much. But there are ways to fix the problem. Huge profits and dubious tax strategies for American firms, while many Europeans face eviction and fear becoming homeless. Desperate towns have turned to private equity for much-needed upgrades, but the deals can carry hefty price tags. More Video » For news, insight and analysis from our reporters and editors. Staff Twitter List » Follow Britain has allowed its capital to become a playground for oligarchs and their ill-gotten gains. Only a Magnitsky law can quell the corruption.